Wait, what?
I have been a huge fan of the series for a long time, but I have never read any of the manga.As a result of this, I can only assume they have skipped an arc to make this film, as the last episode of Fairy Tail showed everyone was scattered after the guild was disbanded.Now all of a sudden, everyone is back together with no explanation. The dissolution isn't ever even mentioned, even though it is clearly set after the series due to Gray's Demon Slayer form showing up. But I could sort of forgive that if we just had an explanation for some of the stuff that happened in the film, but it treats the viewer as though they are an expert on what I assume is in the manga.Carla can suddenly become a human?Lucy now receives gear to equip for herself when she summons her spirits?Natsu is now not only a dragon-slayer, but also half-dragon? And he is also this E.N.D that we have been hearing about for the whole series?What?I have such fond memories of the series, but this film left me with such a sour taste in my mouth. Apparently the series is getting a final run of episodes sometime this year. I really hope that they return to the formular that I used to enjoy so much and actually explains some of the random stuff that was just shoved into this film.The story to this film was so weak, that it hardly bears mentioning next to the questions that it left me with.Some of the fight scenes were just about Ok, but they are nothing compared to the ones from the main series.None of the characters feel like their series versions. Instead they are just cardboard cutouts used as stand-ins. The main theme of the show around friendship and teamwork is completely absent here. The only part that has any semblance of their series counterparts is during the beginning when they need to retrieve the ring stealthily in the bar and they are actually using teamwork.Gajeel, Patherlily, Juvia and Levy are also in the film, but they never actually do anything (with the exception of Juvia who helps with one battle). The time taken up by these characters would have been much better spent on strengthening the main story.All in all, unless the final series requires you to watch this to understand the next storyline, give it a miss for your own sanity.