Weird, ridiculous and dull story makes the film bad.
Fast Colour film is for me, a very difficult one to write a review because I don't even know how to review. So, I only write as much as I know.The film is very different from those films I've normally seen. Mostly because I don't quite understand it's concept. I get that she has the ability that normal people don't have. And for those other people who have those abilities, those all are very different from one another. It's like mutants' abilities from X-Men film. What I don't get is that what it does have to do with the colours? If they could've done a simple thing like they have abilities to do very different awesome things, it might turn out to be a fine film. But when they've mixed with colours thing, it sort of becomes very confusing state. I guess they want it to be different from X-Men, so, they've added that unnecessary colour thing.I found it the film was somehow so boring. I was about to fall asleep when I watched it. Maybe because I was feeling sleepy. 😂 That's the reason why this film couldn't keep me awake. 😁 All those talking is so dull. And also the screenplay is not that much good. I think they should've improved somehow to make it colourful.Talking about screenplay, I should also mention that the end part is quite ridiculous. I mean they are catching them (the ones with abilities) because the world is ending. As much as I understand the story, the reason is no rain in that region. So, no water and they can't plant anything. Hence, the world is ending. It leads to the state where they are trying to find a way to save it. In the end scene, they got the rain. So, what's the benefit of detaining Bo? If they afraid they wouldn't get rain at the later time, they could've make some agreement with them. They don't really need to capture anyone. That's why I said it's quite ridiculous.The acting is quite fine. But the score is very loud. I had to adjust the volume level all the time. It's really annoying. That being said, the score is very harmony to the film. I give you that.All in all, it might be very good film to enjoy for you. But for me is that it's a boring, somehow ridiculous and the plot is too simple. If they could add some awesome things and make it less boring, yeah, this film will turn out to be a fine one.