Straight Arrow; Missed Target
Until it hit its first land mine (more on this later), I was very willing to do something I rarely do when seeing a movie with story flaws, overlook the small unreal moments. I did this because virtually every character in the movie resembled someone I had known (or knew about) during my tenure of 25 years of living in Manhattan during which I went from being an unmarried man to getting married and having a child. The characters writer/director Kollek created have been described as 'quirky' but when people like this are your friends, lovers, acquaintances.....when they are people who you learn about, intimately and otherwise.....then they are people of great variance in their experiences and are not seen to the life you lead as 'quirky'. I should add that there were people I met/experienced who initially might appear to be odd. But getting to know folks who became good friends, getting to know lovers (and the amazing and wonderful stories told during pillow talk time), I learned that 'quirky' is actually quite 'normal'. The movie handled it's characters and their converging stories very well until the first I.E.D.; when Manhattan was reduced to a small town of 1000 with one taxi in it. That is, when Bruno picks up his fare Emily. Which is then followed by their going to bed together. This "coincidence" wounded my concentration/belief in the story being told and though in a lesser film I would have ended the viewing right then, I stuck around until the second major explosion, Bella's windfall (which some people have erroneously labeled as magic realism) of an almost $9 million inheritance from a character never mentioned or referred to previously. In conclusion, I feel very bad that the film derailed itself as it went along because it had begun as a startlingly honest look at a group of very human, very conflicted people, who, as difficult as they made life for themselves goes, also were visited by something we all have to deal with, life's misunderstandings about the vital center of our emotional being when we engage ourselves with other people.