Not a bad entry, way better than 2 Fast 2 Furious
Okay, I love this series. It has good looking, along with fast cars, decent performances, and interesting back stories. Fast and Furious is sort of a mix between the last three entries, and that is where this one will either make or lose an audience.The past three were about showing off both tuner and muscle cars while putting them in some very cool situations. The first two were about plain drag and street racing, while Tokyo Drift was about drifting with a couple of street races thrown in for good measure. This one again mixes all three together. In one showcase scene, four racers are scrambling to make it to be the first across the finish line about five miles down the road. They are racing past, into, and around oncoming traffic using street racing and drifting tactics. However, my only gripe about the cars is that they don't seem to be top focus here. Don't get me wrong, Dom's Charger and Bryan trademark car from 2F2F, the Skyline, is back, along with some other cool automotive toys, but aren't used to the effect of the first three.Where this movie shines is in it's presentation. This Fast and Furious is focused on and has, wait for it, a good story fueling (excuse the bad pun) this entry. While nowhere near Oscar or the Academy Awards material, this is fan service to every extent of the meaning. Jordana Brewster, Paul Walker, Michelle Rodriguez, Vin Diesel, and even Sung Kang (as Han), return for this movie, along with giving decent performances While definitely continuing the story of the first, I didn't hear any references to the events of 2F2F. I'm wondering if they know themselves that that one was a mistake? BTW, this story takes place between 2F2F and Tokyo Drift, if Han returning wasn't any indication.Overall, fans of the series should like this one, and ranks right up there with the first and Tokyo Drift. If you are not a fan, don't go in thinking this movie is going to be revolutionary or extraordinary, like critics. Instead, just think about having fun watching an action packed thrill-ride that is about two hours long.