"Dr Strangelove" after a laughectomy
It might seem odd that two identically storied, charactered, and plotted films should be produced at the same historic moment; but then, in both cases it's the historic moment that's under examination. What's interesting is that post-Kennedy America embraced the farce, rather than the morality play, as the proper genre for its most serious theme.I saw "Fail-Safe" at the Egyptian Theater forty years later, with a curmudgeonly Dan O'Herlihy assenting to a Q&A after the screening. He spoke uncharitably of the success of "Dr Strangelove" and expressed bitterness that his version, which he felt the moral superior of its comic sister, had fared so badly with audiences and critics upon its first release and ever since. It is not pleasant to see an old man clutching to his disappointments, and there is no shortage of on-the-record bitching by this former Mercury Player about the various ways his career didn't pan out as it ought. (You should hear him rage about the indifferent reception of his "Robinson Crusoe" under Luis Bunuel.) In this case, at least, O'Herlihy has good reason to feel slighted. Not that "Dr Strangelove" isn't a vivid, near-perfect classic; certainly it is that and more. But "Fail-Safe", in its bleak way, deserves better than the lower track where it's been shunted.Sidney Lumet likes long takes that crawl with mounting tension. At the top of his game, from the early 60s to the late 80s, he could do more with a static shot of a few good actors than most directors could with a convoy of cranes and all of Central Casting. The stock scenes inherent to political thrillers here might seem a little less inventive than some of their inheritors - every time the NORAD alert level rises, we are harassed by an absurd series of alarms, right up to the dive horn of a submarine, and the same set of doors opens to admit the same set of twin officers rushing conscientiously to their duties. But the action in these cattle corrals is always clearly focused downstage on some intimate dynamic more interesting than Busby Berkeley choreography.O'Herlihy is technically and emotionally excellent as the belated conscience of the military-industrial complex, and Fritz Weaver has a heartbreaking debut; his descent into madness is directed with theatrical economy. Walter Matthau is a revelation as a vicious, elegant policy adviser, but he too has lots of help: early on Lumet sets up the Groeteschele character as a brutal warhawk, then softens him when he rejects the advances of a nihilistic socialite. We think there may be some humanity in him, some hope for his soul and so for the heart of our own darkness; then the story plays out and we get to watch a paper bag implode as the political barometer drops.But it's Henry Fonda as the President who really nails this drama down. He grasps the gravity of the moment even as the wheels of posterity spin behind his cold eyes, and his basic Tom Joad decency is challenged by a series of decisions that, at best, will incinerate only his career. Lumet uses all the tricks in the 1964 version of his kit bag, from sudden lighting changes to wacky camera angles to new-wave editing, to convey the burdens carried by those slender, Brooks Brothers shoulders.Lumet also gives us one of his best opening moments - we are title-carded into a dark "New York City - 5:30 AM", then shoved to the center of a blown-out bullfight arena and menaced by a strange electric whip. Not until "Serpico" would this quintessential mid-century Gothamite again introduce a movie with such a shocking and disorienting image.