I never knew my heart could be touched so deeply
Having only seen 2 Korean movies before viewing Failan, I was quite skeptical about the quality of Failan. What is typically expected of Asian produced and directed movies are badly dubbed 1970 Kung-Fu flicks (with the exception of Crouching Tiger, and Hidden Dragon). More unimaginable was an Asian movie that could touch the heart of the viewers. An asian movie so moving that it can move the audience to tears? Bah! Ever since I began watching films at the tender age of 5, I've always held this belief of Asian movies mainly due to the stereotypes and marginalization of Asians and Asian culture presented and strengthened by the white dominated media world. Then came Failan I have never cried in a film before. While others were sobbing over My Girl, I was wondering how many bee's had stung him. But in Failan (well I gotta admit, I didn't cry) it was the closest I had ever come to crying in a film. Acting:AmazingStory: Unbelievably touchingGirl: My new "dream girl." She has to be one of the most beautiful characters of our times. Her innocence and her love is unmatched.I found the unthinkable happening...Into my greedy little hands, fell a key. Looking around my well, defined (but impeccably small) world of Cinema, I saw an old old rotting door that had been bolted, shut, and hidden. And suddenly, a mysterious light turned that ugly door into the most awe-inspiring sight I have ever led my eyes on. Using that key, and trembling from excitemet I quickly, opened the door and lo-and-behold, I found myself being led to a whole new and not to mention magical world of Korean cinema.Since viewing Failan (2 days ago), I have seen 3 more Korean films. I am just saddened that I have not heard a peep in America about the quality of Korean films. I was made to believe that American movies like, 40 days and 40 Nights, The Sweetest Thing, Just Married, were the only emotional roller coaster current romantic movies could offer. No longer. The Korean movie Oasis actually made me cry.Watch Falian!And wait for the key to fall into your laps...