One of my favorite love story
I am a Chinese viewer of this movie so that Cecillia Cheung was very familiar to me. Actually I watched the movie because I was a fans of her. However, after watching the film, I was not only moved by her beauty of purity, but much more by the magnificent story and eye-and-heart-catching performances by Cheung, as well as that of actor Choi Ming-Shik.I've been aside while my girlfriend watched the movie but I did not actually got to understand what the film was talking about. And the moment I did, I just could not help feeling so heart-broken that tears went down my cheeks. It was not an exaggeration of emotion that forced the tears, but the feeling thrived deep in my mind found its way out through my tears. I was not only moved to feel sorry, but also warm, since it is a love that has never been seen elsewhere, so faint between the two, yet strong enough to sustain the two's lives, and change their tracks of them.After the movie, I've got some rational ideas to share with my friends here. We see the two, Failan and Kang-Chai. They are the most trivial parts of our world, one girl with no relatives or skills to depend on to survive in a strange foreign country, and a 2nd class rogue who is even thought less of by his "colleagues" in the gang. They did not even know each other before or well after their marriage, yet at their most difficult times, and ends of lives, it was this love, derived from imagination that told them to hang on, and to realize their only proof of existence on this planet. We seek for love in our real lives, yet never has been such a love seen. I guess, after all, we are to see and realize ourselves in every period of love, and in the permanent pursue of love, not our partners. And it is this self-realization that is the uttermost meaning of human lives. However, I am not criticizing this pursue as selfish conducts, rather, this is the most profound form of humanity.And it is for this meaning depicted so vividly and thought-worthy, I rate this movie a full 10.