Incredible! Thoroughly enjoyable!
I still can't believe I am giving a 9.0 to a film that is #6 in a brainless action franchise!I am not aware of any other franchise (except maybe, strangely enough, f13) where #6 is the best of the series. Normally the energy, creativity are gone by then.Not this time.I simply cannot believe how much I enjoyed every single minute of this film!There was even a decent plot!! (hey, for a film that is basically made up of fast cars, explosions and fight scenes, that says a lot!)However, I won't go into the plot - because there are some REAL twists in it, and it is better to go in with a fresh mind.It does help if you have seen the prior 5, but no sweat if you haven't. What really pleasantly surprised me was how funny this film was!! I would say about 1/2 the film was gut splitting comedy. It is rare that most jokes work in a film. Usually some fall flat. Not in this one! every single joke worked. I laughed so hard that I know I missed some!This is really meant to be seen on the big screen with a large crowd. I can't remember the last time so many people laughed, went 'WHOA!" and "yeah" even clapping during a film!The film starts off with a bang and ends with a post-ending that will make you grin from ear to ear.The film deals with criminals who are obsessed with fast cars and like to create mayhem with their cars.Wall to wall action, comedy with just the right amount of drama and love interest.This could be "the" measurement for the brainless-feel-good-summer- action film.The only reason I am not giving this a 10.0 is because 1) it was a little long.. the final scene was almost a movie in itself (but it was a hoot!), and 2) in general I don't think any film is perfect. In some scenes (thankfully only a few) there were too many close ups that made it a little hard to follow the action. But I am really nitpicking here, folks.If you like action, fast cars, explosions, comedy....run, don't walk to see F&F 6.(and this from a guy who has the Seventh Seal and Alexander Nevsky in his DVD collection)