Another Type Of Love Story
Failan starts in a corner of the neighborhood electronic game room wherein Kang-jae sits,the man bumming around with a cigarette butt in his mouth. His old friend from the heydays of ruling the backstreet has become boss of a crime organization while he was merely endowed with a small video shop for his contributions to organized crime. Even this meager business mostly constituted of selling porn videos to teenage delinquents is as unstable as his fighting skills.The only time his mucous-ridden, bloodshot eyes brighten up is when he is sitting in front of the game machine.An incident inadvertently forces Kang-jae to sign a life-risking contract with the boss of a major gang, a difficult decision but one that Kang-jae believed would help him return home triumphantly. Then out of the blue, he receives a letter. "Kang-jae...thank you for everything. With your help, I've been able to continue working in Korea. Everyone here is so kind. But you are the kindest of them all. Because you have married me..." After a brief moment of confusion, Kang-jae remembers the time when he went through a fake marriage for a few bucks. The warmth Kang-jae was feeling from the letter takes him into unfamiliar territoryThe movie,Failan is a heart-warming and touching love story between two people that never had a chance to meet one another. The movie is a refreshing love story about a connection between two people that have feelings for each other but never had a chance to face each other. It was a great film due to its originality. Aside from the love story,it also has a mix of drama and comedy. Aside from that,it is one of the most tragic I have ever in my life. The acting of the movie was excellent as the viewer is treated with the talented Asian superstars in Choi Min-sik from South Korea and Cecilia Cheung of China. Both were great to generate a convincing love relationship despite of not sharing screen time. Aside from that,the supporting cast were great as the lead characters.This is a highly- recommended film for viewers who are looking for another type of love story in a film.